---
layout: post
title:  "Parag the Academic"
author: Parag
# categories: [ Jekyll, tutorial ]
image: assets/images/academicc1.jpeg
date: 2000-01-03
---

Professor of AI and Innovation Strategy at Tokyo International University Japan, Parag holds PhD from IIT Kharagpur, management educa1on from IIM Kolkata and higher doctorate DSc from UGSM Monarch Business School Switzerland. He was the first higher doctorate in the area of Knowledge Innovation. Parag authored 16 books, invented 12+ patents and published over 350+ research papers. He was the first PhD guide in Computer Engineering at COEP (Tech University) and guided 20 PhD candidates. 

Recipient of distinguished alumnus award of WCE Sangli, Parag delivered over one thousand keynote addresses and 200+ tutorials across the globe. Over 1000 institutes and 10,00,000+ professionals beneficed from Parag’s leadership inputs, talks, research and systemic consulta1ons. Parag helped underperforming professionals, start-ups and students to transform into happy and passionate warriors. Fellow of the IET, IETE, and senior member IEEE, Parag is recipient of Oriental Foundation Scholarship and was nominated for prestigious Dr SS Bhatnagar award in 2013 and 2014. He was also awarded IETE - KR Phadke award for innovative entrepreneurship, technical leadership and research in 2019. He is also nominated for distinguished alumnus award IIT KGP (2024).

🎓 Education: 

- **D.Sc.** Innovation Strategy and Knowledge Innovation.
<div style="text-align: right; top: -20px; position: relative; vertical-align: top; padding:0px; margin:0px; "> UGSM, Monarch Business School, Switzerland. </div>
- **Ph.D.** Computer Science.
<div style="text-align: right; top: -20px; position: relative; vertical-align: top; padding:0px; margin:0px; "> Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, India. </div>
- **M.E.** Computer Science.
<div style="text-align: right; top: -20px; position: relative; vertical-align: top; padding:0px; margin:0px; "> SGS Institute of Technology and Science (SGSITS), Indore, India. </div>
- **B.E.** Computer Science.
<div style="text-align: right; top: -20px; position: relative; vertical-align: top; padding:0px; margin:0px; "> Walchand College of Engineering (WCE), Sangli, India. </div>

🎓 Teaching and Research Interests: 

Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Innovation Strategy, Choice Computing, Emotional and Behavioral Computing, Data Mining, Text Mining, Deep Reinforcement Machine Learning. 

